## Docker – Containers - Exercise - 02 

### Automate Building Images

#### Step 1
Select Create Firewall Rule. Fill in the form: Name: default-allow-http-8080 Source IP:
0.0.0.0/0 Allow protocols and ports: tcp:8080 Hit Create

#### Step 2
Create a directory jtrac.
    mkdir jtrac
    cd jtrac
    
Create a Dockerfile.

    FROM centos:latest
    RUN yum install -y wget
    RUN yum install -y zip
    RUN cd /tmp && wget -q --no-check-certificate --no-cookies \
    --header "Cookie: oraclelicense=accept-securebackup-cookie" \
    http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/8u181-
    b13/96a7b8442fe848ef90c96a2fad6ed6d1/jdk-8u181-linux-x64.rpm
    RUN rpm -i /tmp/jdk*linux-x64.rpm
    ENV JAVA_HOME=/usr/java/latest
    RUN cd /tmp && wget https://sourceforge.net/projects/j-trac/files/jtrac/2.1.0/jtrac-
    2.1.0.zip
    RUN yum install -y unzip
    RUN cd /opt && unzip /tmp/jtrac*.zip
    RUN cd /opt/jtrac && mv start.bat start.sh && chmod +x start.sh
    RUN rm /tmp/jdk*linux-x64.rpm /tmp/jtrac*.zip
    WORKDIR /opt/jtrac
    CMD ./start.sh
    
Build the Docker image.

    docker build -t jtrac .
    docker images
    
#### Step 3

Run the container

    docker run -d --name jtrac -p 8080:80 jtrac
    docker ps
    
Find the external IP address of your VM.
In a browser on your local machine enter the URL x.x.x.x:8080/jtrac replacing x.x.x.x
with your external IP address.
You should see the Jtrac home page.
Log in as admin with password admin.

#### Step 4

Select Options.

Select Manage Spaces.

Select Create new space.

Give the space a Display Name, Space Key and Description and hit Next.

The Space Key must be only upper case letters.

Select Next and then Save.

Hit Allocate to add the admin user to the space.

Create a new user and allocate it to the space.

Create a few issues. Try out features on the application. It should be fairly intuative.

Check out this Web page for more information http://jtrac.info/doc/html/features.html#features-dashboard

#### Step 5

Tidy up.

    docker stop jtrac
    
If you choose to remove the container you will lose any data. We won't be using this tool again.
